docs(skills): fix claims-vs-reality drift from the skills audit (TML-3223) (#30088)
prisma/prisma: skills-contrib/contrib-pr/SKILL.md

---
name: contrib-pr
description: Open a high-quality external contributor PR against prisma/prisma. Use when the user is an outside contributor (not a Prisma maintainer) and wants to submit a change as a pull request from a fork. Encodes the contribution flow from CONTRIBUTING.md so the resulting PR passes review on the first round.
---

# Contributor PR skill (external)

> This skill is for **external contributors** to `prisma/prisma` who are using an LLM-based agent to author or finalize a PR. It is intentionally separate from the maintainer-facing `create-pr` skill: it does not depend on Linear access, internal plan/spec documents, or any private context. It encodes the expectations laid out in [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](../../CONTRIBUTING.md) as a runnable workflow, so the PR you produce matches the shape maintainers expect on the first review round.

Author: Done in 6f9eae34. The trigger examples now say "Submit this as a PR to prisma/prisma" and "I am contributing to Prisma Next"; the remaining `prisma-next` in the backward-compat bullet is now "Prisma Next" as well.

Trigger this skill when the user says any of:

- "Open a PR for this contribution"
- "Submit this as a PR to prisma/prisma"

> - "I'm contributing to Prisma Next, finalize my change"

Reviewer: Prisma 8

Author: Yes — will change this trigger example to "Prisma 8", and sweep the other stale "Prisma Next" mentions in files this PR touches (draft-release-notes and publish-npm-version descriptions, write-architecture-docs example prose) in the same pass. Leaving record-gotcha's product taxonomy alone for now since its naming is tied to the Linear gotchas projects.

Author: Done. The trigger example now says Prisma 8, and the same rename is applied in publish-npm-version, draft-release-notes, and write-architecture-docs. record-gotchas is intentionally untouched: its gotcha taxonomy is tied to the Linear gotchas-project naming, so renaming there would desync that mapping. 741e41bb621b2d6221c7e61308437d17909ba5cf.

- **One logical change.** If the diff includes unrelated cleanup or "while I was here" fixes, ask the user whether to split them into separate PRs. Mixed-scope PRs almost always trigger a "please split this" review comment.
- **Substantive change?** If the change is more than a typo / doc fix / obvious bug fix, ask the user whether they opened a tracking issue first per `CONTRIBUTING.md`. If not, recommend they do — maintainers will respond within 5 business days, and a half-day issue conversation can prevent a one-week PR rewrite when the design direction differs from what they expect.
- **Tests updated.** If the change has any behavioural delta and there are no test changes in the diff, push back on the user before opening the PR. "Why aren't there tests?" is the most common reason a PR gets bounced.

> - **No backward-compat shims.** Prisma Next is pre-1.0; if the change renames or removes an API, the call sites should be updated, not aliased.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **No backward-compat shims.** Prisma 8 is RC; if the change renames or removes an API, the call sites should be updated, not aliased.
```

Author: Agreed — "pre-1.0" is stale now that Prisma 8 is in RC. Will apply the suggested wording.

Author: On it.

Author: Done. Applied the suggested wording in b916a0e8e634b0cdfefe6ab82ab49c6f63c68142.
